Adds TS logic requirements (#1907)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/typescript/how-to-handle-workflow-logic-requirements-in-typescript.md

---
id: how-to-handle-workflow-logic-requirements-in-typescript
title: How to handle Workflow logic requirements in TypeScript
sidebar_label: Workflow logic requirements
description: Handle Signal
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - typescript
---

In the Temporal TypeScript SDK, Workflows run in a deterministic sandboxed environment.
The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and can import any package as long as it does not reference Node.js or DOM APIs.

:::note

> If you **must** use a library that references a Node.js or DOM API and you are certain that those APIs are not used at runtime, add that module to the [`ignoreModules`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/worker.BundleOptions#ignoremodules) list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you **must** use a library that references a Node.js or DOM API and you are certain that those APIs are not used at runtime, add that module to the [ignoreModules](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/worker.BundleOptions#ignoremodules) list.
```
Per as yet unpublished style guidance (buried somewhere deep with a Slack convo) about not mixing `monospace` and link text.

:::

> Because the Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, side effects and access to external state must be done through Activities as Activity outputs are recorded in the Event History, and can read deterministically by the Workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, so side effects and access to external state must be done through Activities because Activity outputs are recorded in the Event History and can read deterministically by the Workflow.
```
- Changed "as" to "because" per https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#as.
- Reworked lead-in clause to avoid having two instances of "because".

This limitation also means that Workflow code cannot directly import the [Activity Definition](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-definition).

> [Activity Types](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-definition#activity-type) _can_ be imported, so they can be invoked in a type-safe manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Activity Types](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-definition#activity-type) *can* be imported, so they can be invoked in a type-safe manner.
```
Not sure why, but the underscores rendered literally; I replaced 'em with asterisks.

To make the Workflow runtime deterministic, functions like `Math.random()`, `Date`, and `setTimeout()` are replaced by deterministic versions.

> [`FinalizationRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry), and [`WeakRef`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakRef) are removed because v8's garbage collector is not deterministic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[FinalizationRegistry](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry) and [WeakRef](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakRef) are removed because v8's garbage collector is not deterministic.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't like this style suggestion.
This is so common in code documentation that I can't see a reason for us to be unique here.

---
id: how-to-handle-workflow-logic-requirements-in-typescript
title: How to handle Workflow logic requirements in TypeScript
sidebar_label: Workflow logic requirements
description: Handle Signal
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - typescript
---

In the Temporal TypeScript SDK, Workflows run in a deterministic sandboxed environment.
The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and can import any package as long as it does not reference Node.js or DOM APIs.

:::note

If you **must** use a library that references a Node.js or DOM API and you are certain that those APIs are not used at runtime, add that module to the [`ignoreModules`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/worker.BundleOptions#ignoremodules) list.

:::

> Because the Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, side effects and access to external state must be done through Activities.
> 
> The only way Workflows should interact with the outside world is through Activities.
> Activity outputs are recorded in the Event History, so it can be read deterministically by the Workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, side effects and access to external state must be done through Activities as Activity outputs are recorded in the Event History, and can read deterministically by the Workflow.
```

---
id: how-to-handle-workflow-logic-requirements-in-typescript
title: How to handle Workflow logic requirements in TypeScript
sidebar_label: Workflow logic requirements
description: Handle Signal
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - typescript
---

In the Temporal TypeScript SDK, Workflows run in a deterministic sandboxed environment.
The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and can import any package as long as it does not reference Node.js or DOM APIs.

:::note

> If you use a library that references a Node.js or DOM API, ensure that they're not used at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you *must* use a library that references a Node.js or DOM API and you are certain that those APIs are not used at runtime, you may add that module to the [`ignoreModules`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/worker.BundleOptions#ignoremodules) list.
```

> For more information, see [`ignoreModules`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/worker.BundleOptions#ignoremodules).

Reviewer 2: And delete this line

:::

Because the Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, side effects and access to external state must be done through Activities.
This limitation also means that Workflow code cannot directly import the [Activity Definition](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-definition).

> Activity Types can be imported, so they can be invoked in a type-safe manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Activity _Types_ can be imported, so they can be invoked in a type-safe manner.
```

To make the Workflow runtime deterministic, functions like `Math.random()`, `Date`, and `setTimeout()` are replaced by deterministic versions.

> <!-- [`FinalizationRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry), and [`WeakRef`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakRef) are removed because v8's garbage collector is not deterministic. -->

Reviewer 2: I think we can uncomment this.

The only way Workflows should interact with the outside world is through Activities.

> Activity outputs are recorded in the Event History, so it can be read deterministically by the Workflow.

Reviewer 2: This comment should be moved to the paragraph above where we mention "must be done through Activities".

> <details><summary>Example</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Expand to see the implications of the deterministic `Date` API</summary>
```

> The use of the `sleep()` function in the code example shows how date is deterministic in the Workflow.

Reviewer 2: This is incorrect.

Reviewer 2: Please remove.

---
id: how-to-handle-workflow-logic-requirements-in-typescript
title: How to handle Workflow logic requirements in TypeScript
sidebar_label: Workflow logic requirements
description: Handle Signal
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - typescript
---

> In the Temporal TypeScript SDK, Workflows run in a deterministic sandboxed environment. The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and any package can be imported as long as it does not reference Node or DOM APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Temporal TypeScript SDK, Workflows run in a deterministic sandboxed environment.
The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and any package can be imported as long as it does not reference Node or DOM APIs.
```
Change "Node" to "Node.js"? Or is the reference to a non-Node.js set of APIs?

> Since the Workflow sandbox can only run deterministic code, [Side Effects](/workflows#side-effect) and access to external state must be done through Activities. This limitation also means that Workflow code cannot directly import the Activity Definition. Activity Types may be imported, so they can be invoked in a type safe manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, [Side Effects](/workflows#side-effect) and access to external state must be done through Activities.
This limitation also means that Workflow code cannot directly import the Activity Definition.
Activity Types can be imported, so they can be invoked in a type-safe manner.
```

The Workflow runtime is completely deterministic, with functions like `Math.random()`, `Date`, and `setTimeout()` being replaced by deterministic versions, like [`uuid4()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#uuid4), [`sleep()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#sleep), [`new Date()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/workflow.UnsafeWorkflowInfo#now), and [`Date.now()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/workflow.UnsafeWorkflowInfo#now).

> <!-- [`FinalizationRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry), and [`WeakRef`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakRef) are removed because v8's garbage collector is non deterministic. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- [`FinalizationRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry), and [`WeakRef`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakRef) are removed because v8's garbage collector is not deterministic. -->
```

> The only way Workflows should interact with the outside world is through Activities. When an Activity completes, its result is stored in the Event History to be replayed in case of a restored Workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only way Workflows should interact with the outside world is through Activities.
When an Activity completes, its result is stored in the Event History to be replayed in case of a restored Workflow.
```

---
id: how-to-handle-workflow-logic-requirements-in-typescript
title: How to handle Workflow logic requirements in TypeScript
sidebar_label: Workflow logic requirements
description: Handle Signal
tags:
  - developer-guide
  - sdk
  - typescript
---

In the Temporal TypeScript SDK, Workflows run in a deterministic sandboxed environment.

> The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and any package can be imported as long as it does not reference Node.js or DOM APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code is bundled on Worker creation using Webpack, and can import any package as long as it does not reference Node.js or DOM APIs.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd consider mentioning how to work around these limitations if you have a library that references those APIs and you're sure that those are not used at runtime.

https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/worker.BundleOptions#ignoremodules

> Because the Workflow sandbox can run only deterministic code, [Side Effects](/workflows#side-effect) and access to external state must be done through Activities.

Reviewer 2: We're not talking about the temporal side effect here.

This limitation also means that Workflow code cannot directly import the Activity Definition.
Activity Types can be imported, so they can be invoked in a type-safe manner.

> The Workflow runtime is completely deterministic, with functions like `Math.random()`, `Date`, and `setTimeout()` being replaced by deterministic versions, like [`uuid4()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#uuid4), [`sleep()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#sleep), [`new Date()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/workflow.UnsafeWorkflowInfo#now), and [`Date.now()`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/interfaces/workflow.UnsafeWorkflowInfo#now).

Reviewer 2: The examples here don't help and the links you had are wrong.
```suggestion
To make the Workflow runtime deterministic, functions like `Math.random()`, `Date`, and `setTimeout()` are replaced by deterministic versions.
```

<!-- [`FinalizationRegistry`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry), and [`WeakRef`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakRef) are removed because v8's garbage collector is not deterministic. -->

The only way Workflows should interact with the outside world is through Activities.

> When an Activity completes, its result is stored in the Event History to be replayed in case of a restored Workflow.

Reviewer 2: This is now mostly redundant but you can add the sentence that explains why activities are okay: their output is recorded in the workflow history so it can be read deterministically by the workflow.

> The use of the `Date.now()` function in the countdown timer example shows how date is deterministic in the Workflow.

Reviewer 2: I'd put this in a collapsable block and make it clearer that this is just demonstrates how date is deterministic.

The sample you put here is wrong, use the one in the notion doc (copied from the legacy docs).
